Let us write a program to take the age of a person and check whether he's young or not so for that I
will declare a variable called age and cout
enter your age
then cin age, a condition
We have already seen that age is greater than or equal to twelve.
And age is less than or equal to 50.
Then we will see he's young.
cout young
else see out.
Not young.
That's it.
So this will check the conditions so two conditions are there.
So this is a compound conditional statement.
Let us run it and see
is asking for age.
I will enter ten years not young.
You can see the message here.
It's not young
age is thirty.
So the message is young you are young.
Let me try.
comma here and see what happens.
I have given comma it's a warning you see.
Possible misuse of comma because comma is not used here.
We use compound conditional statement, we logical operators here.
If I'm using comma then the first condition whether it's true or false it will execute only based on
the second condition.
If the number is less than 50 it will look.
Let us run and see.
I'm giving age as a minus 5 which is less than or equal to 50 so it is less than equal to 50.
I'm giving five minus five young.
I got a message that it is young because first condition though it was false.
But the second condition in was true so it has entered into this one.
So it will check these two conditions independently.
If we write comma here so coma is not use here you should use either and or OR.
So as per our condition.
AND is useful, now we convert this program using order.
Now let us convert this program to take age and check if he's eligible for some offer or not.
Like if age is less than 12 years or if age is greater than 50.
Then he is eligible for an offer.
So I'll make a message that
eligible otherwise not eligible.
See here.
Age of a person is taken and the condition is check whether he is less than 12 means he is
a child or greater than 50 means,
He an old man.
So suppose the offer is valid only for children and old people.
Then cout eligible otherwise not eligible.
I run the program
and mention age as 60.
So I got a message that is eligible.
I'll run the program once again and now i will mentioned age that is 30 so I get a message that is not eligible.
The participants not eligible.